Hey, this is Stephen Furtick.
I'm the pastor of Elevation Church, and this is our podcast.
Be sure to subscribe so we can get you these new sermons every week.
Hope you're blessed today.
I was looking back on the sermons that I preached to you this year, just really trying to put in context what the Lord has spoken and remember some of the things that he's shared with us.
And it was just powerful for me to remember.
the times that we've shared together in His presence.
I did a series called Cold.
I did a series called That's What I Thought.
I did a series called Same Lies, New Loops.
Thank you.
I already forgot that one.
Yeah.
That's what you think about that, huh?
That, that, that, that, that, indeed.
That must mean the Lord wanted to send you a score update.
to let you know that no matter how far down you are in the fourth quarter of 2025.
Touch somebody and say, I feel a comeback.
Come on, it's the last quarter of the year, but God can do anything.
Look at your neighbor say, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah.
Sometimes you gotta tell the devil, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah.
Philippians chapter three, verse 10.
Thank you to all of our campus pastors who preached so beautifully last week.
Thank you for leading.
Thank you for shepherds.
Thank you for caring for the people of God, making sure you're still standing.
It's good for your circulation.
Philippians chapter three, verse 10.
I can't speak for you, but I want to know Christ.
I do.
I want to know.
Christ, yes, to know the power of His resurrection and participation in His sufferings, becoming like Him in His death.
And so somehow, love that word.
It means I'm more focused on the person than the plan.
I want to know Christ so that somehow, however He chooses to do it.
And that's what we're going to talk about today, by the way.
So somehow, I can attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Now, this part's important.
Nothing I've already obtained all this or have already arrived at my goal.
Warn your neighbor.
I'm not there yet.
Yeah, tell them, I might, I might, I might cuss you out leaving the parking lot today.
If the Lord doesn't do a work, because I'm not there yet.
I don't want to, but it's possible.
If the traffic's real bad, if you drive stupid.
All right, focus.
I should read the whole verse again.
I messed it up.
Not that I have already obtained all this or have already arrived at my goal, but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me.
Beautiful.
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself to have taken hold of it.
But one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, I press on.
toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus.
Give the Lord praise for His word.
Now Exodus chapter number 13 for our Old Testament demonstration, Exodus chapter 13 verse 17 says this, when Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them on the road through the Philistine country, so that was shorter.
For God said, if they face war, they might change their minds and return to Egypt.
So God led the people around by the desert road toward the Red Sea.
The Israelites went up out of Egypt, ready for battle.
Now, I want you to sit down in this order, okay?
If you are at one of our physical locations today, play along.
If you're online, just raise your hand in the chat or something like that.
If everything went the way you planned it this year and you are exactly where you intended to be in every area of your life at the end of this year, when you started the year, you planned it and right now you possess it.
You may be seated.
Because we want to look at who to hire to be our therapist or our coach or pray for because you're a liar.
But everybody else that had a plan A,
And then a plan B, I want you to look at your neighbor and tell him my title, because I think the whole church is still standing.
Tell him, this must be my plan C. You may be seated, plan C. That's why I'm calling the message, Chris.
This must be my plan C. And we'll talk a little bit about what that means in just a moment.
There was an apocalyptic fog in the air as we drove to church today.
Abby and I were driving into church and I looked at her and said, this is kind of freaky.
She said, I know, but it's kind of cool.
We were listening to a song that we just recorded.
You don't have it yet.
You will soon.
It's called So Be It.
And as I was saying this to her, the voice of the lead vocalist on our song called So Be It said,
Like a thief in the night, he'll return for his bride.
Even so Jesus come, Jesus come, split the skies.
So be it, God.
And I looked at Abby and said, wouldn't it be wild?
If while we're listening to that, Jesus just came back.
It's like six in the morning.
She's rolling her eyes at me and stuff.
But I looked at her.
I'm just messing with her.
I said, would you be ready?
And she said, not really.
I've got some work to do.
Just keeping it on her side.
I wouldn't want him to come exactly right now.
I don't know what's going on in young Abby's life that she needs to repent of.
Y'all pray for her as well.
When the Israelites left Egypt, the Bible uses an interesting phrase and I call your attention to it once again.
As we bring these two amazing, amazing scriptures together today, one is located out of 400 years of slavery where God set his people free and one is located in a prison cell.
where an apostle is being held captive for his obedience to God.
Let me set this up, okay?
The richness of it is the second scripture I read you, they're coming out of captivity.
And the first scripture I read you, he is still in captivity.
But I think there is a thread that will help us evaluate where we are, where we want it to be, the plan we had, and what God actually did while we were making our plans, which was laugh.
The Egyptians had held God's people captive to the point that they cried out to God.
And I wanna speak this sermon in three different stages today.
One, I wanna talk about the crying, the crying, and then I wanna talk about the crossing, the crossing.
Why aren't you writing down the points?
What if there's a pop quiz on this?
What if the devil tries to beat you up next week and you need to go back and refer to this, write it down, the crying,
the crossing, and then the covering, those three things that I want to talk to you about today.
They cried out to God.
It says in Exodus chapter 3, verse 7, this is not for the screen, but just listen to it real quick.
When the Lord appeared to Moses, he said, I've come down because I'm concerned about my people.
I have seen the misery of my people in Egypt.
I have heard them crying out.
I have devices all over my house that listen to me.
I know they listen to me because I talk about a restaurant and it shows up on my phone without being typed in.
I'm thankful that the Lord listens to me as well and that He puts things in my path in response to the prayers that I prayed.
Have you ever noticed that God will put something in your path in response to the prayer that you prayed?
God won't always pick you up and carry you where you need to go.
but he'll put something in your path.
I believe for somebody right now, God put this message in your algorithm because he's putting something in your path.
You almost tripped over this video, didn't you?
You didn't even want to see a 45-year-old middle-aged man in a black hoodie with a Bible open.
You were looking for something much more entertaining, but God put something in your path because he knows about the things that you're going through, and he wanted you to accidentally trip over this
video.
It's not the algorithm.
It's the anointing of the God who loves you so much and calls you from an early age that he would put this message in your path at this time.
Oh, it's not an accident.
Don't switch it off.
Don't mute it.
Don't scroll past it.
Don't fast forward until I really start going good.
I'm going right now to tell you that often God will answer your prayer by putting something in your path.
And we praise him when he does.
We praise him when he goes.
We praise him when he does.
No, it's not luck.
It was the Lord.
The Lord put that in my path.
It wasn't happenstance.
It wasn't coincidence.
Stop blaming coincidence for God's work.
You see what I'm saying?
When you call it coincidence, you diminish the divine.
It was God that put it in your path.
God puts things in our path in response to our prayers.
And if we are not aware of the things that He puts in our path and answer to our prayers, we will trip right over what He put in front of us, trying to get to what we think we wanted.
I said, you can trip right in front of what God put
I said that wrong.
You can trip over what God put right in front of you trying to get where you think you need to be or trying to get to what you think you wanted.
Paul said, I want to know Christ.
I'm clear about the outcome.
I want to draw closer to him.
If I have to suffer to get to know him, I would rather suffer and know him than succeed and forget him.
I would rather go through something hard and have him
then to be far from him and everybody else think my life is wonderful.
I would rather have Christ.
I would rather have him.
I don't want to miss him on the way to it.
It's so important that you understand whatever you're going through in your life that God hears your cries.
What do we mean when we say that?
Let me break it down for you.
I can't exactly
Explain this to you, but when I describe it, the Holy Spirit will help you to know what I'm talking about.
Sometimes God answers your prayer by putting something in your path that looks like what you prayed for.
That happens.
But today I want to talk with you for a little bit about when God sends a problem in answer to a prayer.
Sometimes
God will send a problem in answer to a prayer.
The example that I'm thinking about in my life right now is too personal to share with you.
But I just recently prayed about something and then a problem arose and I didn't see the connection between the two at the time.
But the Lord then later showed me, you know that problem that you are now praying for me to remove from your life?
That problem that you're praying for me to remove, I sent to answer the last prayer you prayed.
I don't know if this is clear or not.
It's like I asked God to do something in my life and then something happened that did not resemble what I asked God to do.
And so I'm like, oh God, I got to get rid of this problem so you can answer this prayer, right?
I'm praying about this.
Here comes the problem.
I'm like, oh God, take this problem out and answer the prayer.
And the Lord's like, I just did, but I did it different.
I did it different.
And so now the answer doesn't resemble the prayer.
So you are too blind to see that the thing that you're continuing to pray for me to take away is the thing that I sent to answer the prayer that you were praying to begin with.
I know it's not very clear.
Let me try to make it clear from the Bible.
In Exodus chapter 13, God's people are coming out
of Egyptian slavery.
God answered their prayer.
He sent Moses to get them out of slavery.
But they're not just concerned with coming out of Egypt because where will they go from Egypt?
I have to have somewhere to live.
I have to have some type of soil to cultivate.
I have to have some type of agriculture by which I can partner with the earth so that our babies can eat.
I have to have some kind of formation.
I have to have some sort of government.
And God is always taking you out of something, bringing you into something, taking you out of something, bringing you into something,
you out of something and bringing you into something.
And the Bible says something very powerful in Exodus chapter 13 verse 17, when Pharaoh let the people go.
What's interesting about that?
God knew that although Pharaoh had let his people go with just 10 plagues, his people had still not let Pharaoh go.
Isn't it amazing that it only took God ten plagues?
I know that's a lot, but it's only ten.
It only took God ten plagues to get Pharaoh to let his people go.
Now Pharaoh didn't let them go quickly.
The enemy will never let you go quickly, not if you're gifted.
Why would he?
Why would he let you go quickly?
Why would he release his grip on you?
Why would he allow you to forgive without feeling bitterness?
Why would he give up your services?
Why would he let you go easily?
He knows what you're capable of if you ever get liberated.
Why would he let you go?
Come on, somebody in New York, shout.
The reason the devil is squeezing you is because there's something he sees in you that if you ever get free, if you ever get loose, if you ever shake this off of you, if you ever get out of here, if I ever get out of this place, if I ever get out of this mindset, I'm going to do something for God.
Somebody shout, God has something for me.
God's got something for you.
That's what the attack means.
That's what the enemy is fighting you over.
God's got something for you.
And isn't it amazing that although it only took 10 plagues for God to get Pharaoh to let his people go, it took 40 years of wilderness wandering for God to get his people to let Pharaoh go.
Relief is easy.
Freedom is a process.
I feel anointed to teach today.
Let's don't worry about all three points.
Let's just talk about crying real quick.
What if you are crying about something that God is using, that God is trying to use?
What if you are crying about something right now?
And the Lord is saying those who sow in tears will reap with joy.
See, you think those tears are wasted.
They're not wasted.
They're watering a harvest that you can't see right now.
So some of you, God, put something in your life.
It's a great challenge.
It's a terrible situation.
It's a horrible situation.
It's about as bad as being at a Red Sea.
Look at this scripture.
The Bible says God could have taken them a short way, but he didn't.
And this is really the challenge, right?
When God could, but he doesn't.
Look at the scripture again.
He led the people around by the desert road toward the Red Sea.
The Israelites went up out of Egypt, ready for battle.
So now I'm confused.
Work with me.
If they were ready for battle, verse 18, then why in verse 17 say, does God say, if they face war, they might change their minds and return to Egypt?
God is the only one who really knows when you're ready.
God is the only one who really knows what's in you.
God is the only one who can fully determine what to take you through and win because he's the only one who knows what's really in you.
There is a powerful thing that happens when I begin to decide in my life that God has me where he wants me.
Even if it was caused by an attack of the enemy, God has me where he wants me.
What would it look like if at the end of this year, because I'm trying to help you as you reflect and as you expect and as you accept and you do all the things that we have to do at this time of the year, what would it look like for you to have the kind of empathy for yourself and trust in God to realize that even if it's taking you a little longer than you expected it to take you, watch this, you're still going to get there.
Tell your neighbor you're still going to get there.
Maybe that's what we'll call the message when we put it online because I know you're running a little late.
I know you got a little bit of a limp.
I know you're not looking as fresh as you were when you started out the journey.
I know it's not exactly the right time, but you're still going to get there.
Tell him again and say it with faith.
You're still going to get there.
you're still gonna get there.
And it might have some detours along the way.
And it might have some disappointments along the way.
And you might not get there with who you thought was going to be.
Not everybody that started on the road trip is gonna be in the car when you pull up, but you're still going to get there.
You understand what I'm saying?
You might not get through it all unscathed and unscarred.
You might have to show a few of your wounds and your scars along the way to encourage somebody else.
but you're still going to get there.
The tears will not stop you.
The trials will not stop you.
The trauma will not stop you.
The traffic will not stop you.
It will not stop you.
Your boss will not stop you.
The economy will not stop you.
The weather will not stop you.
That's why I like a day where the fog is out.
Because there was somebody who got up and saw the weather was bad.
And Charlotte was saying, I still got to get there.
And I'm looking for a few rough riders in the house today.
who say, come hell or high water, come wind, come rain, come storm, come setback, come difficulty, come depression.
Now shove your neighbor and testify, say, I'm still going to get there.
I'm still going to get there.
Don't cancel my reservation.
Don't give my ticket away.
I'm still gonna get there.
Don't give away my seat at the table.
I'm not gonna be on the fast bus, but I'm still gonna get there.
I'm not the valedictorian, but I intend to graduate.
I'm still gonna get there.
I might not do it like she did it, but I'm still gonna get there.
I might not have the right shoes on, but I'm still gonna get there.
I might have a story to tell, but I'll tell my story.
How I'm overcome.
High five, three people say just get there.
Just get there.
Wipe your tears and drive.
Wipe your tears and walk.
Wipe your tears and lose your hands.
I'm still gonna get there.
I wouldn't despair had I not believed that I would see what's this.
goodness of the Lord.
So Moses, why are we going this way?
Can't we go the straight way and see there's a difference between the straight way and the right way?
This is plan A.
This is plan A and this is plan B.
This is Plan C. Watch me.
This, tell your neighbor.
This might be your Plan C. Plan C is like this, okay?
Here's where they were, Egypt, right?
Here's where they were going, Canaan.
That's Plan A.
And then Plan B is, go back.
That's what B stands for.
We're going back to Egypt.
This is Plan C. Plan C doesn't make any sense.
Plan C is, wait a minute, we going around in a circle.
Why are you taking us this way?
Moses.
Moses must be bad with a map.
Sometimes the mission doesn't look like the map.
Now, this is so true for your life.
I need you to know that you're still gonna get there.
Say it.
I'm still gonna get there.
Graham came to me this weekend.
He said something horrible happened.
We had the speaker lined up to speak Sunday night at the living room and they can't speak now.
And so what do I do?
I said, oh, it's time for plan.
See, plan C is cry.
Ow, to the Lord.
And then cram.
And then cram the message as fast as you can, because this is plan C. I know it's nice when you get to prepare Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, but this is Friday and you got to speak Sunday.
So this is plan.
This is when you thought you were gonna have a week off, but this is when you thought you were gonna retire at age 62, but you gotta refire now.
This is plan C. I'm preaching to somebody.
I'm setting somebody free just to see this plan C. This is when it could have happened that fast and you wanted to go back, but God won't let you go back, but you can't go forward and God's taking you on plan C. Back in rehab, plan C.
Let's see.
Back in recovery, plan C. Send in the children to their mother's house on the weekends.
You didn't plan that getting married.
This is plan C. This is plan C. I didn't want to lose my virginity, but I did.
And now I'm asking God, can He help me move past this in a new way?
This is plan C. And it doesn't mean that God left you.
It just means He's leading me differently.
This is plan.
I feel the testimonies coming back to me even as I preach the word.
Is this going to be one of those words where the reapers overtake the sowers?
Means by the time I can even release this word into your heart, you are going to see what God is saying to you is that you thought you were going here and then you wanted to go back and it's not plan A and it's not plan B, it's going to be plan A.
see because there is something that God knows about me that he finds it necessary for this stage of my life to take me not like this and not like this, but like this.
And I'm still going to get there, but I'm going to get there in a circular route.
And I write this down.
Not every circle is a sin.
The Israelites spent 40 years in the wilderness because they would not believe.
But before they spent 40 years because of their unbelief, God took them on a two-week detour because of His mercy.
He knew there's something I need to do in you.
So I'm just trying to see.
Will you let go of plan A?
And will you refuse plan B?
So you can see.
what God wants to do in your life.
I could go home right now, but we can keep going if you want to.
Let's talk about the crossing.
We talked about the crying.
Who should I use for this illustration?
Volunteer yourself if you dare.
Somebody that
Now, you don't have to do this, so put your hand down, and I'm gonna ask you this question.
Somebody do it if you want to do it, if you feel called to do it, if you feel led to do it.
You do not have to expose yourself, I wouldn't.
But just, if Christmas is gonna be tight for you this year, and you wanna use as a volunteer, and you want me to use you, we're gonna do this, you're committing.
You don't know what I'm gonna do.
So,
Whatever I want to do for this illustration, you'll do it.
Yeah?
Yeah.
All right.
You have to do exactly what I say.
Nothing more, nothing less.
You're committed to the illustration.
Thank you.
Put your hand out.
Yeah, open like that.
Can we see this on the cameras, everybody?
Let's get our optimal camera angle so this illustration.
Put them up a little higher.
A little higher.
Yeah, right there.
Now I prayed about whether to do this.
You know what I'm about to do?
Anybody else want to volunteer?
I'm going to just show this real quick.
It's going to be very simple.
If I give you this, and it says 10, and you take it, and then you squeeze it, I mean, ball it up and squeeze it, squeeze the other hand too, just to complete the illustration, and squeeze it, squeeze the thumb in there,
to the thumb, put the thumb where you can't get to it for the sake of the illustration.
There we go.
And she squeezes it so tight.
Squeeze it so tight until it hurts.
And then I have one of these and I say, okay, I would like to give you this too.
And no, no, no, no, no, no.
Put the thumb in the hand.
But what you instinctively did is what you would have to do
you would have to release to receive.
Now, ball it up.
This is what we do.
We get real tight when God gives us something.
But what if God wants to give you something else?
You're like, I knew he was a prosperity preacher.
It's a metaphor.
It's an analogy.
This is my own personal money.
I'm giving it away.
I'm not asking her for money.
I'm trying to give her something.
But if I'm trying to give her something and her grip on what I just gave her is too tight, I can try to give her something.
Nope, nope, nope, nope.
You're creative.
Don't mess up my illustration.
Now you can receive
When you release, release.
Ball it up.
Ball it up to when you hand it to somebody, they wonder, what has she been through?
What, what have, ball it up?
But if you hold it too tight, there may be more that God wants to give you, but he can't, oh, I hear, I hear like this.
God said, I can't fill your fists.
You want one?
Come on, do it real quick.
I got plenty of this.
As long as you've got open hands, oh, now it's getting really good, y'all.
It's getting better and better and better.
But if she wants to hold on to what that was, she can't get what this is.
And this is a watch what she did because she has learned by now that this person standing in front of me
is a giver, not a taker.
When you learn that about God, it's just absolutely amazing because God's like, if you'll open your hands, come on, open it all the way up and keep your hands open and keep your heart open and keep your mind open and keep your spirit open and keep your faith high and keep
I will never stop meeting your needs.
God sees you.
He sees me empty-handed.
He sees me broken-hearted.
He sees me crying at night.
He sees me, and he holds me.
Did you notice?
Now listen, you got to get through this so I can preach this next point.
Did you notice that Paul said, I'm striving to take hold of that, for which Jesus already took hold of me?
That means that I don't have to grab it because God grabbed me.
And y'all give her a hand.
Merry Christmas.
Everybody hug her real quick.
Everybody in that section, I'm gonna give her a hug too.
Hey, thank you for helping me French.
Thank you for helping me show that the secret in this season of your life
It's not this.
It's this.
Because you raised your hand, God filled it.
I love it.
I love the Lord.
He heard my crown.
He pitied every grown.
Not only did he lead them through the desert, but he led them through the water.
That's the crossing.
Why is God taking me through this?
Why is God letting it be like this?
Why is God allowing this season in my life?
It's the crossing.
It's the crossing because God knew they were too weak for war.
So he led them to water.
He knew they were too weak for war.
God knew that even though Pharaoh had temporarily let them go, he was coming back to get them.
For the Bible says that no sooner had they got to that place at the Red Sea than the chariots of Pharaoh begin to click, clack behind them.
And as those chariots begin to make their sound and the engines of the enemy begin to rev, the Bible says in Exodus 14, 15 that they cried out
to the Lord and to Moses.
Why did you bring us out here to die?
No, we're going across this water.
We're going across this water because what is against you is more than what's with you.
And if you fight this enemy hand to hand, you will die.
But God knew something very strategic.
Now watch this.
This is another reason that I love God is because for God,
This is the strategic route, even if it's not the short route.
And so they're standing in a Red Sea, and this is where it all comes together for me.
The Red Sea is a problem.
But they are praying a prayer.
So God leads them to a problem in answer
It's just the best sermon I've preached all year, or am I just caffeinated?
So I'll be like, God, take me around this.
What am I going to do with the sea?
And God says, oh, you'll see.
Because I didn't bring you out here because I'm done with you.
I brought you out here to deal with your enemies and to drown them in this
See, this is my plan.
See.
And the Egyptians you see today, you will see them no more.
But you've got to let go now.
You've got to let go of what you were holding on to.
Paul said, I didn't forget about Paul, forgetting what is behind me.
and reaching toward what's ahead.
I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And Paul wrote about the prize from a prison, which goes to show me God's got me right where he wants me.
And I'm still gonna get there.
Well, y'all used up all your shout or you would be shouting about this Red Sea in front of you.
You would be shouting about your problem if you knew the nature of your God.
It's that He leads us to impossible situations.
He leads us to the deep end so that we might learn to depend on Him.
He leads us to the water because He knows we're not ready for war.
So God sees what you're fighting against.
God sees what you're up against.
God sees you're outnumbered for it.
God sees you're too young to do it.
God sees you're too old to carry it.
God sees you're too small to do it.
God sees you're not smart enough to know it.
And he says, I have a C to deal with that if you will move forward in faith.
The presence of the Lord is in this place.
The Spirit of God is in this place.
And it's the most amazing thing, man.
If you never read the story, the Bible says that they crossed through on dry ground and their enemies didn't.
There's going to be some things you look back on at the end of this year that tried to kill you.
But what you didn't understand about what you were going through in your situation, that wasn't your plan A, and it wasn't plan B.
It was plan C. It was a crossing.
After all, none of the disciples signed up to follow Jesus to death.
None of them signed up for a cross, but he did.
He said, if there's any other way, plan B,
take this cup from me.
But he went to the cross and he died.
Why?
It was his plan C. Paul said, I want to know Christ.
That's my plan C. Hey, all of y'all that are praying about stuff, you can't control.
Time to go to plan C. God, I can't control this.
You can.
I want to know you.
I want to know you more than I want to get her number.
I want to know you more than I want them to follow me back.
I want to know you more than I want to like on this post.
I want to know you.
What good is knowing what college to go to if you don't take Christ with you when you get there?
God brought you to this water.
Devil can't drown you in a crossing that God brought you to.
Paul said, even if I have to suffer, even if I have to stay in this cell, this is not where I'm meant to be.
And one thing the text shows us is that whether you are in captivity or whether you're headed toward freedom, God is with you on this Plan C. Somebody stop Plan C. Just all over your life this year, things you don't understand, just boom, boom.
God's not done, it's a plan C. When he does his C with your C, it's gonna all come full circle, and you are going to understand the goodness of God at a level that you have never known before.
Well, there's crying, and there's crossing, and there's covering.
There's covering.
Stand up, I'm done.
As they went through the sea, the Bible says that Moses had one job to do.
And if he did this job, then God would handle every part of the battle that he could not handle.
And it's pretty simple, but it's kind of hard to do some time.
In Exodus chapter 14, as the people are standing in front of a Red Sea,
up against battles that they're not ready to fight, surrounded by enemies that they are not strong enough to subdue.
You feel like that?
I'm going to stop my sermon for a minute.
If you feel like that, watch what Moses did, because he thought the Lord was just going to do something.
This is so funny.
In the Bible, sometimes there's little jokes, but you think the Bible is boring, so you don't get them.
Moses gives a speech to the people.
He says, verse 14, Exodus 14, the Lord will fight for you.
You need only to be still.
Then the Lord said to Moses, why are you crying out to me?
Tell the Israelites to move on.
Crying is no substitute for crossing.
You can stand there and cry and get killed.
Or you can move forward in this season with what you have.
Because
The Lord said, why are you crying out to me?
Tell the Israelites to move on.
Raise your staff and stretch out your hand.
So the Lord says that the key to this is going to be what Paul said in Philippians chapter three, that I am letting go of what's behind me and letting God deal with that.
And I'm reaching.
toward what's ahead of me.
And if you will do this, God will do that.
And the Bible says that they had to go through some raging waters in UF2.
You know, let's just rejoice for a moment in our hearts.
You don't have to clap or shout or nothing like that.
Just in your own heart, kind of tell the Lord like, I know it's amazing what you brought me through.
See, because nobody else really knows what it cost you to get here.
Nobody knows what it cost you.
Nobody knows what you cried.
Nobody really knows how much you're having to let go of.
Look, there are people in this room today who are having to unlearn their entire upbringing to follow Christ.
They were not raised in a Christian family.
They were not shown how to read the Bible.
They were not taught about Jesus and God has brought you this far.
So as we thank God for that and what you've been through, I mean, if you really just would think about it for a one split second of your life, the fear of what's next would look much smaller in the context of all you've been through already.
I mean, the devil missed his window to take you out.
because there have been some things that you have been through that were much bigger than this.
And as they walk through the waters, I love to get a picture of it, man, because at this point, they've basically already given up faith in their leader because he's taken them the long way, but God was leading them through him.
And they have no idea what's going to happen next, only that this man is holding up a stick in front of a sea.
So if you feel like that today,
I need you to know that God has you covered.
The Bible says in verse 16, raise your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea to divide the water so that the Israelites can go through on dry ground.
I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will go in after them, and I will gain glory through Pharaoh and his army.
Through his chariots and his horsemen, did you notice that everything that was going to kill them
was an instrument in the hands of God for a greater glory.
I prophesy it over your life.
What the enemy meant for evil?
Help me preach.
Then somebody shout now.
Then the angel of God who had been traveling in front of Israel's army withdrew and went behind them.
And the pillar of cloud also moved from in front and stood behind them coming between the armies of Egypt and Israel.
And throughout the night,
The cloud brought darkness to the one side and light to the other side.
So neither went near the other all night long.
Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea and all that night the Lord drove the sea back.
You see it?
Moses is doing this and God is doing this and Moses is doing this and God is doing this and Moses and God has you covered in this season.
of your life.
The waters were divided and the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground, with the wall of water on their right and on their left.
The Egyptians pursued them, and all Pharaoh's horses and chariots and horsemen followed them into the sea.
During the last watch of the night, the Lord looked down from the pillar of fire and cloud at the Egyptian army and threw it into confusion.
and he jammed the wheels of their chariots so that they had difficulty driving.
And the Egyptians, the enemies, the forces that came to conspire against the people of God said, let's get away from the Israelites.
The Lord is fighting for them against Egypt.
Then the Lord said to Moses, watch this, stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may flow back over the Egyptians and their chariots and horsemen.
When Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and a daybreak, the sea went back to its place, the Egyptians were fleeing toward it, and the Lord swept them into the sea.
The water flowed back and covered the chariots and the horsemen, the entire army of Pharaoh that had followed the Israelites into the sea.
Not one of them survived.
Hallelujah.
But the Israelites went through the sea.
on dry ground.
Notice how many times it says, see, because this is plan, see.
The Israelites went through the sea.
They were covered.
The Egyptians drowned in the sea.
It covered them.
God is working all things together for your good.
God is working all things together for his glory.
God is working all things together for a purpose.
God is working all things together for a plan.
You just keep doing this.
Verse 30 and I'll finish, that day, the Lord saved Israel from the hands of the Egyptians.
And all Israel saw the Egyptians lying dead on the shore.
So I don't have to see it to believe it, because I know that God is with me.
And I've been praying about some things in my life like you've been praying about some things in your life.
And I've had some things in my life that didn't quite match up at this point.
And honestly, I'm gonna get real specific with you.
There's not that many things about my life that I can complain about.
But sometimes there's some things about me that I thought would be better by now.
Y'all just leaving me up here like I'm the only dog on one.
Doing like this sometimes.
But the Lord will bring you to the water for the worst that you're not ready for.
I wanna challenge you.
Y'all, we've got like a few weeks left and we'll be saying goodbye yesterday.
I'ma tell you, if you take the chariots with you into the promised land, you won't be there long.
There are some things that God wants to deal with in your life.
And God might have sent a problem to answer a prayer.
What was Paul's prayer?
I want to know Christ.
So God put him in a prison and said, you'll get to know me here.
So Paul said, I have a prize in the prison.
So do you.
A prize in the prison.
You hear that?
Father, these are your people.
I didn't make them, I didn't create them, I can't lead them through deep waters, you can.
Now, God, we're holding on to so much.
I mean, we've got our fist balled up so tight on a $10 blessing.
We've got our fist balled up so tight on the way we think about us, on the way that we think about others.
We've got our fist balled up so tight on our plan A.
Some of us are thinking about going back, plan B.
But today you told us that Plan C is for us to trust you.
Give the situation to you, follow you forward.
And I believe, God, yeah, I do.
I believe that you're going to bring them across this red seed that they're going through.
I'm not saying that as a cute metaphor, God.
I have faith for it, for them.
And even if they don't believe right now, would you just give them the strength to let go?
such a strange thing to pray for.
We think it's so strong to hold on.
But the strength to let go and to go forward is time for Plan C. It's time for you to see what God can do when you trust Him with your life.
Heads bowed eyes closed.
There's someone here today.
And the assignment on my life for this message with you is to give you the opportunity to give your life to Jesus Christ, like to really
Give him your life.
Not just to say, I'm religious, not just to say, yeah, I'm gonna pray to God, make my life better.
No, to really give him your life.
Is that you?
God has brought you to this moment.
This is a threshold for you.
You are here today because God has been drawing you and leading you and calling you out of your sin, out of your shame and into his love.
The Bible says that if you'll confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart, God raised him from the dead.
You will be saved.
I believe that this day God wants to save you.
Right now I'm going to pray a prayer for the benefit of those who are coming to God.
And listen, if this is you and you feel it in your heart and you're ready to repent of your sin and trust in God and give him your life, I want you to know that the work has already been done.
Jesus already died the death we should have died.
He lived the life we could not live.
He paid a debt.
He did not owe so that you could be saved.
The only thing for you to do is to believe.
So right now, if you're ready for that, to give your life to Christ, I want you to repeat this prayer after me.
Church family, we're praying it out loud together for all those who are coming to God.
Repeat after me.
Heavenly Father, I am a sinner.
in need of a Savior.
And I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior of the world.
Today, I make Jesus the Lord of my life.
I believe He died, that I would be forgiven, and rose again to give me life.
I receive this new life.
This is my new beginning.
I am a child of God.
On the count of three, raise your hand if you prayed that.
One, two, three.
Hands went up before I even said three.
That's awesome.
Let's give the Lord a great hand of praise.
Come on.
Everybody can praise God.
I see a lot of hands.
Welcome to the family of God.
Praise the Lord for all those online.
You can put in the comments.
I receive Jesus.
Come on, clap those hands for what God did in the house today.
Praise the Lord.
Hug seven people tell them, you're still gonna get there.
You're still gonna get there.
Yes, you are.
Yeah.
You're gonna get there.
Might be 12 pounds heavier in December.
Still gonna get there.
This is planned.
Let's see.
How many got something out of the Word of God today?
Campus Vasters.
You can take it.
Can I close here?
You got anything important to say?
We got a big offering next weekend, y'all.
This envelope right here.
Open this up.
Fill it out.
Fill it up.
Bring it back.
Put it in and expect God to move in a great way in our church.
What else do you need to tell them?
I don't want to oversimplify.
Is that all?
Come up here with me, JJ.
Come on, Holly.
Come on, Graham.
Come on, Abby.
Come on, Chunks.
Come on, Amy.
Come on, Brit.
Come on, J.T.
Come on.
Come on, Mom.
Come on, Eve.
Get up here.
Come on, Mike.
Come on, Elaine.
Get up here.
Come on, Anna.
Who else wants to come?
Where is my sister that got the blessing today?
Come on, join us.
Do your hands like this.
Repeat after me, now into hell, who is able to do immeasurably more than you ask or imagine to Him be glory through Christ Jesus.
In the church, now and forever, say amen.
Amen again.
I'll see you next week.
You're so great.
This is your husband.
Hey, I hope you enjoyed the podcast.
And if you did, make sure to share it and subscribe so we can get you all of these new messages as soon as they're available.
I also want to take a moment and thank all of you who are a part of Elevation.
Whether you support us financially or serve with us or just share these messages is because of you that we're able to reach people all around the world.
And if you want more information on how to be a part of Elevation, click the link in the description.
Thanks again for listening.
Make sure to leave a review, share the message, and subscribe.
God bless you.